# globalTrade
Interactive data visualization in R, using Shiny and the tidyverse library which allows for visual exploration of global trade from 2000-2023. The user selects a country and a trade direction (either imports or exports), and then sees the entire world from the perspective of that country. 

To use: launch by clicking on "Run App" in RStudio. The installation of some packages may be necessary. A pop-up window will present itself, which can optionally be loaded in a web browser. 

Inside the visualization, a reference country can be selected, as well as the year and trade direction. The interactive choropleth map will then update itself to display the trading statistics for the specified country, in the specified year, against the rest of the world. The color scale is perceptually uniform, where brighter colors indicate a higher amount of trade, but the exact amount traded can be seen by hovering the mouse over specific countries. The map may be zoomed in and panned around using the toolbar next to the display region, and reset to the default view with a right click. Below the choropleth, there is a trading *difference* map, which shows the how trades have evolved between the reference country and the rest of the world over the selected time period. Below this, there is a historical visualization of the reference country's top 10 trading partners, organized in descending order by the total amount of goods traded in the 24 year time frame. Finally, there is a brief time series analysis, which seeks to determine whether future trade volume can be predicted only using historical trade data. The answer is usually no, since economics is much more complicated than a short list of numbers. 
